---
layout: post
title:  "PHP UK 2015 conference write up"
date:   2015-02-23 09:00:00
categories: conferences php
tags:
- php
- conference
- talks
---

Blurb
======
General info about the conference can be found on the [php uk conference website][phpuk2015-website] and a full list of talks can be found on
the conference's [joindin page][phpuk2015-joindin] .


Talks
======

## Everything That I Really Needed to Know, I Learned in Rabbinical School - Yitzchok Willroth
Opening keynote. Really interesting take on parts of the talmud applied to software development. TLDR summary: community, mentoring and peers are important.

## Adding 1.21 Gigawatts to Applications with RabbitMQ - James Titcumb
Nice intro to RabbitMQ. Some takeaway points for me:
- AMQP standard so any suitable client library can be used in php.
- In php it's better to open a single connection to Rabbit and then use multiple channels.
- Exchanges can be configured in rabit to route messages in to queues. Has some useful syntax for pattern matching a routing key.
- RabbitMQ provides a [simulator][rabbitmq-simulator] to experiment with how the routing will work.

## Composer Best Practices - Jordi Boggiano
Overview of some sensible composer practises. Little bit empty of interesting content. Main takeaway for me was a new operator for composer version matching that deals with semver (and is aware of the 0.X.Y Dev convention) :
```JSON
  "^1.2.3" // Greater than or equal to 1.2.3 but less than 2.0.0
  "^1.2" // Greater than or equal to 1.2.0 but less than 2.0.0
  "^0.4.0" // Greater than or equal to 0.4.0 but less than 0.5.0
```

## Accessibility done right -  Michelle Sanver
Good food for thought about how to make more accesible sites. I'd never considered the effect of captchas on anyone with a visual impairment. ARIA Live Regions are definitely something that I want to dive in to.

[phpuk2015-website]: http://phpconference.co.uk/
[phpuk2015-joindin]: https://joind.in/event/view/3063

[rabbitmq-simulator]: http://tryrabbitmq.com/
